Capstone Setup
You will create three capstones during this academy. They will be great projects
to add to your portfolio to demonstrate to any potential employer or hiring
manager.
We suggest that you create a new folder called LearnToCode_Capstones in
your C:/pluralsight directory and keep local copies of your capstone
projects there. In addition, we suggest you use a great name for the project in
GitHub as employers may look at your repos during the hiring process.
You should create a GitHub project board to manage your work. Use the project
requirements to create user stories on your board.
Description
In this project, you will use what you have learned about Java programming to
create a CLI application. With this application you can track all financial
transactions for a business or for personal use.
All transactions in the application should be read from and saved to a transaction
file named transactions.csv. Each transaction should be saved as a single
line with the following format.
date|time|description|vendor|amount
2023-04-15|10:13:25|ergonomic keyboard|Amazon|-89.50
2023-04-15|11:15:00|Invoice 1001 paid|Joe|1500.00
Application Requirements
Your application must include several screens with the listed features in order to
be considered complete:
• Home Screen
o The home screen should give the user the following options. The
application should continue to run until the user chooses to exit.
§ D) Add Deposit - prompt user for the deposit information and
save it to the csv file
§ P) Make Payment (Debit) - prompt user for the debit
information and save it to the csv file
§ L) Ledger - display the ledger screen
§ X) Exit - exit the application
• Ledger - All entries should show the newest entries first
o A) All - Display all entries
o D) Deposits - Display only the entries that are deposits into the
account
o P) Payments - Display only the negative entries (or payments)
o R) Reports - A new screen that allows the user to run pre-defined
reports or to run a custom search
§ 1) Month To Date
§ 2) Previous Month
§ 3) Year To Date
§ 4) Previous Year
§ 5) Search by Vendor - prompt the user for the vendor name
and display all entries for that vendor
§ 0) Back - go back to the report page
o H) Home - go back to the home page
Challenge Yourself
If you have time and want to challenge yourself, consider the following:
On the reports screen add another option for a custom search. Prompt the user
for search values for all ledger entry properties.
3
• 6) Custom Search - prompt the user for the following search values.
o Start Date
o End Date
o Description
o Vendor
o Amount
• If the user enters a value for a field you should filter on that field
• If the user does not enter a value, you should not filter on that field
Other Requirements
Your project must also meet the following requirements:
Repository
• Your code must be in a public GitHub repository
• The repository must contain an appropriate Git commit history
o At a minimum, you should have a commit for each meaningful piece
of work completed
• It must contain an informative README file that:
o Describes your project
o Includes images of your application screens
o Describes/shows one interesting piece of code from your project
Class Demonstrations
Each student will be given 10 minutes to demonstrate their project to the class on
"project demonstration day". During this time, you will:
• Present your application - run through the different screens and scenarios
• Describe / show one interesting piece of code that you wrote
• Answer questions from the audience if time permits